% Options for packages loaded elsewhere
\PassOptionsToPackage{unicode}{hyperref}
\PassOptionsToPackage{hyphens}{url}
%
\documentclass[
]{article}
\usepackage{amsmath,amssymb}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{iftex}
\ifPDFTeX
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
  \usepackage{textcomp} % provide euro and other symbols
\else % if luatex or xetex
  \usepackage{unicode-math}
  \defaultfontfeatures{Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \defaultfontfeatures[\rmfamily]{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=1}
\fi
% Use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{% use microtype if available
  \usepackage[]{microtype}
  \UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\makeatletter
\@ifundefined{KOMAClassName}{% if non-KOMA class
  \IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
    \usepackage{parskip}
  }{% else
    \setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
    \setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}}
}{% if KOMA class
  \KOMAoptions{parskip=half}}
\makeatother
\usepackage{xcolor}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{-\maxdimen} % remove section numbering
\ifLuaTeX
  \usepackage{selnolig}  % disable illegal ligatures
\fi
\usepackage[]{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}
\IfFileExists{bookmark.sty}{\usepackage{bookmark}}{\usepackage{hyperref}}
\IfFileExists{xurl.sty}{\usepackage{xurl}}{} % add URL line breaks if available
\urlstyle{same} % disable monospaced font for URLs
\hypersetup{
  hidelinks,
  pdfcreator={LaTeX via pandoc}}

\author{}
\date{}

\begin{document}

Results included in this manuscript come from preprocessing performed
using \emph{fMRIPrep} 22.0.2 (\citet{fmriprep1}; \citet{fmriprep2};
RRID:SCR\_016216), which is based on \emph{Nipype} 1.8.5
(\citet{nipype1}; \citet{nipype2}; RRID:SCR\_002502).

\begin{description}
\item[Preprocessing of B0 inhomogeneity mappings]
A total of 2 fieldmaps were found available within the input BIDS
structure for this particular subject. A \emph{B0} nonuniformity map (or
\emph{fieldmap}) was estimated from the phase-drift map(s) measure with
two consecutive GRE (gradient-recalled echo) acquisitions. The
corresponding phase-map(s) were phase-unwrapped with \texttt{prelude}
(FSL 6.0.5.1:57b01774).
\item[Anatomical data preprocessing]
A total of 1 T1-weighted (T1w) images were found within the input BIDS
dataset.The T1-weighted (T1w) image was corrected for intensity
non-uniformity (INU) with \texttt{N4BiasFieldCorrection} \citep{n4},
distributed with ANTs 2.3.3 \citep[RRID:SCR\_004757]{ants}, and used as
T1w-reference throughout the workflow. The T1w-reference was then
skull-stripped with a \emph{Nipype} implementation of the
\texttt{antsBrainExtraction.sh} workflow (from ANTs), using OASIS30ANTs
as target template. Brain tissue segmentation of cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF), white-matter (WM) and gray-matter (GM) was performed on the
brain-extracted T1w using \texttt{fast} \citep[FSL 6.0.5.1:57b01774,
RRID:SCR\_002823,][]{fsl_fast}. Volume-based spatial normalization to
two standard spaces (MNI152NLin2009cAsym, MNI152NLin6Asym) was performed
through nonlinear registration with \texttt{antsRegistration} (ANTs
2.3.3), using brain-extracted versions of both T1w reference and the T1w
template. The following templates were selected for spatial
normalization: \emph{ICBM 152 Nonlinear Asymmetrical template version
2009c} {[}\citet{mni152nlin2009casym}, RRID:SCR\_008796; TemplateFlow
ID: MNI152NLin2009cAsym{]}, \emph{FSL's MNI ICBM 152 non-linear 6th
Generation Asymmetric Average Brain Stereotaxic Registration Model}
{[}\citet{mni152nlin6asym}, RRID:SCR\_002823; TemplateFlow ID:
MNI152NLin6Asym{]}.
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 6 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated using a custom
methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}. Head-motion parameters with respect to
the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six corresponding
rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before any
spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to
1.65s (0.5 of slice acquisition range 0s-3.31s) using \texttt{3dTshift}
from AFNI \citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD time-series
(including slice-timing correction when applied) were resampled onto
their original, native space by applying the transforms to correct for
head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be referred to as
\emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just \emph{preprocessed
BOLD}. The BOLD reference was then co-registered to the T1w reference
using \texttt{mri\_coreg} (FreeSurfer) followed by \texttt{flirt}
\citep[FSL 6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{flirt} with the boundary-based
registration \citep{bbr} cost-function. Co-registration was configured
with six degrees of freedom. Several confounding time-series were
calculated based on the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement
(FD), DVARS and three region-wise global signals. FD was computed using
two formulations following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by thresholding the corresponding partial
volume map at 0.05, and it ensures components are not extracted from
voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally, these masks are
resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding at 0.99 (as in
the original implementation). Components are also calculated separately
within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor decomposition, the
\emph{k} components with the largest singular values are retained, such
that the retained components' time series are sufficient to explain 50
percent of variance across the nuisance mask (CSF, WM, combined, or
temporal). The remaining components are dropped from consideration. The
head-motion estimates calculated in the correction step were also placed
within the corresponding confounds file. The confound time series
derived from head motion estimates and global signals were expanded with
the inclusion of temporal derivatives and quadratic terms for each
\citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}. Frames that exceeded a threshold
of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS were annotated as motion
outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are calculated by means of
principal components analysis of the signal found within a thin band
(\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the brain, as proposed by
\citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD time-series were resampled into
standard space, generating a \emph{preprocessed BOLD run in
MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Automatic removal of motion artifacts using independent
component analysis \citep[ICA-AROMA,][]{aroma} was performed on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD on MNI space} time-series after removal of
non-steady state volumes and spatial smoothing with an isotropic,
Gaussian kernel of 6mm FWHM (full-width half-maximum). Corresponding
``non-aggresively'' denoised runs were produced after such smoothing.
Additionally, the ``aggressive'' noise-regressors were collected and
placed in the corresponding confounds file. All resamplings can be
performed with \emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the
pertinent transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices,
susceptibility distortion correction when available, and
co-registrations to anatomical and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric)
resamplings were performed using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs),
configured with Lanczos interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects
of other kernels \citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were
performed using \texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 6 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated from the shortest
echo of the BOLD run using a custom methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}.
Head-motion parameters with respect to the BOLD reference
(transformation matrices, and six corresponding rotation and translation
parameters) are estimated before any spatiotemporal filtering using
\texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL 6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs
were slice-time corrected to 2.3s (0.5 of slice acquisition range
0s-4.6s) using \texttt{3dTshift} from AFNI
\citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD time-series (including
slice-timing correction when applied) were resampled onto their
original, native space by applying the transforms to correct for
head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be referred to as
\emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just \emph{preprocessed
BOLD}. A T2★ map was estimated from the preprocessed EPI echoes, by
voxel-wise fitting the maximal number of echoes with reliable signal in
that voxel to a monoexponential signal decay model with nonlinear
regression. The T2★/S0 estimates from a log-linear regression fit were
used for initial values. The calculated T2★ map was then used to
optimally combine preprocessed BOLD across echoes following the method
described in \citep{posse_t2s}. The optimally combined time series was
carried forward as the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}. The BOLD reference was
then co-registered to the T1w reference using \texttt{mri\_coreg}
(FreeSurfer) followed by \texttt{flirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{flirt} with the boundary-based registration
\citep{bbr} cost-function. Co-registration was configured with six
degrees of freedom. First, a reference volume and its skull-stripped
version were generated using a custom methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}.
Several confounding time-series were calculated based on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD), DVARS and three
region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two formulations
following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by thresholding the corresponding partial
volume map at 0.05, and it ensures components are not extracted from
voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally, these masks are
resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding at 0.99 (as in
the original implementation). Components are also calculated separately
within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor decomposition, the
\emph{k} components with the largest singular values are retained, such
that the retained components' time series are sufficient to explain 50
percent of variance across the nuisance mask (CSF, WM, combined, or
temporal). The remaining components are dropped from consideration. The
head-motion estimates calculated in the correction step were also placed
within the corresponding confounds file. The confound time series
derived from head motion estimates and global signals were expanded with
the inclusion of temporal derivatives and quadratic terms for each
\citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}. Frames that exceeded a threshold
of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS were annotated as motion
outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are calculated by means of
principal components analysis of the signal found within a thin band
(\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the brain, as proposed by
\citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD time-series were resampled into
standard space, generating a \emph{preprocessed BOLD run in
MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Automatic removal of motion artifacts using independent
component analysis \citep[ICA-AROMA,][]{aroma} was performed on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD on MNI space} time-series after removal of
non-steady state volumes and spatial smoothing with an isotropic,
Gaussian kernel of 6mm FWHM (full-width half-maximum). Corresponding
``non-aggresively'' denoised runs were produced after such smoothing.
Additionally, the ``aggressive'' noise-regressors were collected and
placed in the corresponding confounds file. All resamplings can be
performed with \emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the
pertinent transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices,
susceptibility distortion correction when available, and
co-registrations to anatomical and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric)
resamplings were performed using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs),
configured with Lanczos interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects
of other kernels \citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were
performed using \texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 6 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated by aligning and
averaging 1 single-band references (SBRefs). Head-motion parameters with
respect to the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six
corresponding rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before
any spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to
0.531s (0.5 of slice acquisition range 0s-1.06s) using \texttt{3dTshift}
from AFNI \citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD time-series
(including slice-timing correction when applied) were resampled onto
their original, native space by applying the transforms to correct for
head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be referred to as
\emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just \emph{preprocessed
BOLD}. The BOLD reference was then co-registered to the T1w reference
using \texttt{mri\_coreg} (FreeSurfer) followed by \texttt{flirt}
\citep[FSL 6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{flirt} with the boundary-based
registration \citep{bbr} cost-function. Co-registration was configured
with six degrees of freedom. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Several confounding time-series were calculated based
on the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD), DVARS and
three region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two formulations
following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by thresholding the corresponding partial
volume map at 0.05, and it ensures components are not extracted from
voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally, these masks are
resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding at 0.99 (as in
the original implementation). Components are also calculated separately
within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor decomposition, the
\emph{k} components with the largest singular values are retained, such
that the retained components' time series are sufficient to explain 50
percent of variance across the nuisance mask (CSF, WM, combined, or
temporal). The remaining components are dropped from consideration. The
head-motion estimates calculated in the correction step were also placed
within the corresponding confounds file. The confound time series
derived from head motion estimates and global signals were expanded with
the inclusion of temporal derivatives and quadratic terms for each
\citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}. Frames that exceeded a threshold
of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS were annotated as motion
outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are calculated by means of
principal components analysis of the signal found within a thin band
(\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the brain, as proposed by
\citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD time-series were resampled into
standard space, generating a \emph{preprocessed BOLD run in
MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Automatic removal of motion artifacts using independent
component analysis \citep[ICA-AROMA,][]{aroma} was performed on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD on MNI space} time-series after removal of
non-steady state volumes and spatial smoothing with an isotropic,
Gaussian kernel of 6mm FWHM (full-width half-maximum). Corresponding
``non-aggresively'' denoised runs were produced after such smoothing.
Additionally, the ``aggressive'' noise-regressors were collected and
placed in the corresponding confounds file. All resamplings can be
performed with \emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the
pertinent transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices,
susceptibility distortion correction when available, and
co-registrations to anatomical and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric)
resamplings were performed using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs),
configured with Lanczos interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects
of other kernels \citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were
performed using \texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 6 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated by aligning and
averaging 8 single-band references (SBRefs). Head-motion parameters with
respect to the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six
corresponding rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before
any spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to
0.751s (0.5 of slice acquisition range 0s-1.5s) using \texttt{3dTshift}
from AFNI \citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD time-series
(including slice-timing correction when applied) were resampled onto
their original, native space by applying the transforms to correct for
head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be referred to as
\emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just \emph{preprocessed
BOLD}. A T2★ map was estimated from the preprocessed EPI echoes, by
voxel-wise fitting the maximal number of echoes with reliable signal in
that voxel to a monoexponential signal decay model with nonlinear
regression. The T2★/S0 estimates from a log-linear regression fit were
used for initial values. The calculated T2★ map was then used to
optimally combine preprocessed BOLD across echoes following the method
described in \citep{posse_t2s}. The optimally combined time series was
carried forward as the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}. The BOLD reference was
then co-registered to the T1w reference using \texttt{mri\_coreg}
(FreeSurfer) followed by \texttt{flirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{flirt} with the boundary-based registration
\citep{bbr} cost-function. Co-registration was configured with six
degrees of freedom. First, a reference volume and its skull-stripped
version were generated using a custom methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}.
Several confounding time-series were calculated based on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD), DVARS and three
region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two formulations
following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by thresholding the corresponding partial
volume map at 0.05, and it ensures components are not extracted from
voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally, these masks are
resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding at 0.99 (as in
the original implementation). Components are also calculated separately
within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor decomposition, the
\emph{k} components with the largest singular values are retained, such
that the retained components' time series are sufficient to explain 50
percent of variance across the nuisance mask (CSF, WM, combined, or
temporal). The remaining components are dropped from consideration. The
head-motion estimates calculated in the correction step were also placed
within the corresponding confounds file. The confound time series
derived from head motion estimates and global signals were expanded with
the inclusion of temporal derivatives and quadratic terms for each
\citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}. Frames that exceeded a threshold
of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS were annotated as motion
outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are calculated by means of
principal components analysis of the signal found within a thin band
(\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the brain, as proposed by
\citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD time-series were resampled into
standard space, generating a \emph{preprocessed BOLD run in
MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Automatic removal of motion artifacts using independent
component analysis \citep[ICA-AROMA,][]{aroma} was performed on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD on MNI space} time-series after removal of
non-steady state volumes and spatial smoothing with an isotropic,
Gaussian kernel of 6mm FWHM (full-width half-maximum). Corresponding
``non-aggresively'' denoised runs were produced after such smoothing.
Additionally, the ``aggressive'' noise-regressors were collected and
placed in the corresponding confounds file. All resamplings can be
performed with \emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the
pertinent transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices,
susceptibility distortion correction when available, and
co-registrations to anatomical and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric)
resamplings were performed using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs),
configured with Lanczos interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects
of other kernels \citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were
performed using \texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 6 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated by aligning and
averaging 1 single-band references (SBRefs). Head-motion parameters with
respect to the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six
corresponding rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before
any spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to
0.269s (0.5 of slice acquisition range 0s-0.537s) using
\texttt{3dTshift} from AFNI \citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD
time-series (including slice-timing correction when applied) were
resampled onto their original, native space by applying the transforms
to correct for head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be
referred to as \emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just
\emph{preprocessed BOLD}. The BOLD reference was then co-registered to
the T1w reference using \texttt{mri\_coreg} (FreeSurfer) followed by
\texttt{flirt} \citep[FSL 6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{flirt} with the
boundary-based registration \citep{bbr} cost-function. Co-registration
was configured with six degrees of freedom. First, a reference volume
and its skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology
of \emph{fMRIPrep}. Several confounding time-series were calculated
based on the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD),
DVARS and three region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two
formulations following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by thresholding the corresponding partial
volume map at 0.05, and it ensures components are not extracted from
voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally, these masks are
resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding at 0.99 (as in
the original implementation). Components are also calculated separately
within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor decomposition, the
\emph{k} components with the largest singular values are retained, such
that the retained components' time series are sufficient to explain 50
percent of variance across the nuisance mask (CSF, WM, combined, or
temporal). The remaining components are dropped from consideration. The
head-motion estimates calculated in the correction step were also placed
within the corresponding confounds file. The confound time series
derived from head motion estimates and global signals were expanded with
the inclusion of temporal derivatives and quadratic terms for each
\citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}. Frames that exceeded a threshold
of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS were annotated as motion
outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are calculated by means of
principal components analysis of the signal found within a thin band
(\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the brain, as proposed by
\citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD time-series were resampled into
standard space, generating a \emph{preprocessed BOLD run in
MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Automatic removal of motion artifacts using independent
component analysis \citep[ICA-AROMA,][]{aroma} was performed on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD on MNI space} time-series after removal of
non-steady state volumes and spatial smoothing with an isotropic,
Gaussian kernel of 6mm FWHM (full-width half-maximum). Corresponding
``non-aggresively'' denoised runs were produced after such smoothing.
Additionally, the ``aggressive'' noise-regressors were collected and
placed in the corresponding confounds file. All resamplings can be
performed with \emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the
pertinent transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices,
susceptibility distortion correction when available, and
co-registrations to anatomical and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric)
resamplings were performed using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs),
configured with Lanczos interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects
of other kernels \citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were
performed using \texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 6 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated by aligning and
averaging 8 single-band references (SBRefs). Head-motion parameters with
respect to the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six
corresponding rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before
any spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to
0.381s (0.5 of slice acquisition range 0s-0.762s) using
\texttt{3dTshift} from AFNI \citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD
time-series (including slice-timing correction when applied) were
resampled onto their original, native space by applying the transforms
to correct for head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be
referred to as \emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just
\emph{preprocessed BOLD}. A T2★ map was estimated from the preprocessed
EPI echoes, by voxel-wise fitting the maximal number of echoes with
reliable signal in that voxel to a monoexponential signal decay model
with nonlinear regression. The T2★/S0 estimates from a log-linear
regression fit were used for initial values. The calculated T2★ map was
then used to optimally combine preprocessed BOLD across echoes following
the method described in \citep{posse_t2s}. The optimally combined time
series was carried forward as the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}. The BOLD
reference was then co-registered to the T1w reference using
\texttt{mri\_coreg} (FreeSurfer) followed by \texttt{flirt} \citep[FSL
6.0.5.1:57b01774,][]{flirt} with the boundary-based registration
\citep{bbr} cost-function. Co-registration was configured with six
degrees of freedom. First, a reference volume and its skull-stripped
version were generated using a custom methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}.
Several confounding time-series were calculated based on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD), DVARS and three
region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two formulations
following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by thresholding the corresponding partial
volume map at 0.05, and it ensures components are not extracted from
voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally, these masks are
resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding at 0.99 (as in
the original implementation). Components are also calculated separately
within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor decomposition, the
\emph{k} components with the largest singular values are retained, such
that the retained components' time series are sufficient to explain 50
percent of variance across the nuisance mask (CSF, WM, combined, or
temporal). The remaining components are dropped from consideration. The
head-motion estimates calculated in the correction step were also placed
within the corresponding confounds file. The confound time series
derived from head motion estimates and global signals were expanded with
the inclusion of temporal derivatives and quadratic terms for each
\citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}. Frames that exceeded a threshold
of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS were annotated as motion
outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are calculated by means of
principal components analysis of the signal found within a thin band
(\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the brain, as proposed by
\citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD time-series were resampled into
standard space, generating a \emph{preprocessed BOLD run in
MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a reference volume and its
skull-stripped version were generated using a custom methodology of
\emph{fMRIPrep}. Automatic removal of motion artifacts using independent
component analysis \citep[ICA-AROMA,][]{aroma} was performed on the
\emph{preprocessed BOLD on MNI space} time-series after removal of
non-steady state volumes and spatial smoothing with an isotropic,
Gaussian kernel of 6mm FWHM (full-width half-maximum). Corresponding
``non-aggresively'' denoised runs were produced after such smoothing.
Additionally, the ``aggressive'' noise-regressors were collected and
placed in the corresponding confounds file. All resamplings can be
performed with \emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the
pertinent transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices,
susceptibility distortion correction when available, and
co-registrations to anatomical and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric)
resamplings were performed using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs),
configured with Lanczos interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects
of other kernels \citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were
performed using \texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\end{description}

Many internal operations of \emph{fMRIPrep} use \emph{Nilearn} 0.9.1
\citep[RRID:SCR\_001362]{nilearn}, mostly within the functional
processing workflow. For more details of the pipeline, see
\href{https://fmriprep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows.html}{the
section corresponding to workflows in \emph{fMRIPrep}'s documentation}.

\hypertarget{copyright-waiver}{%
\subsubsection{Copyright Waiver}\label{copyright-waiver}}

The above boilerplate text was automatically generated by fMRIPrep with
the express intention that users should copy and paste this text into
their manuscripts \emph{unchanged}. It is released under the
\href{https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/}{CC0} license.

\hypertarget{references}{%
\subsubsection{References}\label{references}}

  \bibliography{/base/derivatives/fmriprep-melodic-100/logs/CITATION.bib}

\end{document}
